# CS415 Database Project – Travel Database

## Database Summary Report

### Project Overview

The user of this database would be someone interested in taking a recreational trip. The system is helpful in managing expenses, flight itineraries, scheduled activities, and hotel stays. It is best used for keeping separate trips organized, and helping the user stay aware of money spending to prevent exceeding their self-allotted budget. The hope is that the efficiency of the database helps make traveling informative, and stress-free. For anyone who has ever taken a trip before, they know that information can often get lost in confirmation emails, digital receipts, and various apps. This database should eliminate the stress of trying to find scattered information while traveling, and instead place it all in one location so that the user can enjoy their vacation in a leisurely manner. It also gets rid of the awkward hassle of telling the receptionist at various welcome desks that they need a moment to find their travel confirmation details.

The user will begin by creating a trip, in which they can add flights, hotel stays, and scheduled activities in their various locations. Users can also add expenses at any time throughout the trip. Once the user has decided to start a new trip, they have the ability to switch between the various categories with ease as they add to or modify their trip details. Within each category, the user will also be able to manually edit any trip-specific details. Within the database, the user will be able to view their upcoming flights, get a list of their hotel stays, view each day’s itinerary, and view expenses organized by category, as well as total trip cost. To make navigating the database more efficient, each section will have a search bar that will make finding confirmation numbers and addresses easier to find instantly. The ability to see the total trip cost will also help the user compare past trips with future trips when it comes to budgeting and long-term planning. They will also be able to star anything they find preferable throughout their trip such as restaurants, hotels, airlines, etc., which will also help in future trip-planning.
